posts/2019-06-09-personal-website-verse.md, before:

---
title: The Personal-Website-Verse
date: 2019-06-09
summary: Lorem ipsum dolor sit amet, consectetur adipiscing elit. Morbi dignissim molestie dolor, id aliquam massa semper vitae. Phasellus sit amet volutpat velit. Phasellus euismod ipsum quis lacus facilisis, eu viverra purus lacinia. Duis ornare arcu arcu, sed imperdiet nibh dignissim id. Nullam tincidunt ullamcorper laoreet. Sed rhoncus posuere risus. In tristique dictum tristique. Cras justo tortor, vestibulum quis pharetra vel, laoreet ac libero. 
---
I've stopped reading *social media* a while ago and switched to a couple of news outlets and hand-picked blogs. That just happened when I noticed that most of what is presented to me, does not interest me and seems to simply suck me into **wasting time**.

There was [great talk about exactly this by Tantek Çelik](https://beyondtellerrand.com/events/duesseldorf-2019/speakers/tantek-celik) at a "boutique" conference in Düsseldorf called "beyond tellerrand":

<div style="padding:56.25% 0 0 0;position:relative;"><iframe src="https://player.vimeo.com/video/336343886" style="position:absolute;top:0;left:0;width:100%;height:100%;" frameborder="0" allow="autoplay; fullscreen" allowfullscreen></iframe></div><script src="https://player.vimeo.com/api/player.js"></script>
<p><a href="https://vimeo.com/336343886">Take Back Your Web - Tantek &Ccedil;elik</a> from <a href="https://vimeo.com/beyondtellerrand">beyond tellerrand</a> on <a href="https://vimeo.com">Vimeo</a>.</p>

This talk and another great [overview article](https://matthiasott.com/articles/into-the-personal-website-verse) also go into detail what we can do *instead* of consuming the web solely through social media. The solution is the personal website. With newer standards the interconnections between those sites and feedback also improved.

It's my deep conviction that to *combat the questionable ethics* behind the powerful recommendation algorithms of Youtube and Facebook, we will have to *actively built an attractive alternative*. Personal websites, these new technologies and good old RSS seem like the best way there to me.

Commit message:

Add navigation, add more readable fonts, add about-me and contact pages, add draft filtering

posts/2019-06-09-personal-website-verse.md, after:

---
title: The Personal-Website-Verse
date: 2019-06-09
summary: Since the inception of the web as a non-commercial decentralized oasis of tiny custom sites, we've moved to a much more stream-lined, clean and ultimately commercial web. As with any trend there's also some resistance. In this case it's creatives that create small curated sites to keep the original idea of the web alive. Lately I've delved a bit into this world...   
---
I've stopped reading *social media* a while ago and switched to a couple of news outlets and hand-picked blogs. That just happened when I noticed that most of what is presented to me, does not interest me and seems to simply suck me into **wasting time**.

There was [great talk about exactly this by Tantek Çelik](https://beyondtellerrand.com/events/duesseldorf-2019/speakers/tantek-celik) at a "boutique" conference in Düsseldorf called "beyond tellerrand":

<div style="padding:56.25% 0 0 0;position:relative;"><iframe src="https://player.vimeo.com/video/336343886" style="position:absolute;top:0;left:0;width:100%;height:100%;" frameborder="0" allow="autoplay; fullscreen" allowfullscreen></iframe></div><script src="https://player.vimeo.com/api/player.js"></script>
<p><a href="https://vimeo.com/336343886">Take Back Your Web - Tantek &Ccedil;elik</a> from <a href="https://vimeo.com/beyondtellerrand">beyond tellerrand</a> on <a href="https://vimeo.com">Vimeo</a>.</p>

This talk and another great [overview article](https://matthiasott.com/articles/into-the-personal-website-verse) also go into detail what we can do *instead* of consuming the web solely through social media. The solution is the personal website. With newer standards the interconnections between those sites and feedback also improved.

It's my deep conviction that to *combat the questionable ethics* behind the powerful recommendation algorithms of Youtube and Facebook, we will have to *actively built an attractive alternative*. Personal websites, these new technologies and good old RSS seem like the best way there to me.
